to the cloud we are now recording hello
everybody welcome to the June 18th
edition of the monthly local and offline
collaboration Meetup
my name is Dietrich and i am your very
brief emcee and host today as we listen
to mr. Jim Kusum will present to us the
final output of his last couple months
work on IPF SPP mobile design guidelines
please welcome Jim well hey right yeah
so if those of you are there here last
time there here last time the the
project for the ipfs mobile design was
split into two parts the the last time I
presented was about the research which
was which is all in the kid book as well
that was just presented last time and
I'll go over a quick recap of that and
and then I'll be largely presenting the
design which is the actual guidelines so
the Occulus mobile design guidelines
which are all up and get booked and all
in the repo as well so I just let me
share my screen here
oh there's the big green button there
can everybody see that all right yeah
you see a get book thing that says
finding soap at the top but yeah
okay yeah so yeah just to quickly recap
what you find out in the first half of
the project which was about the research
and just it's kind of so we split it up
at the findings and of course you're at
your leisure you're you there's tons of
interviews to look through with
different sorts of findings there's the
application survey to look through where
we look through different peer to peer
apps different applications and browsers
different OS kind of patterns survey of
the various interaction patterns yeah
there's quite a bit to go through them
but the quick version of it is is this
right here and it's kind of blocked into
you could say these three rough
categories which is around the cloud
services p2p usability and awareness of
and security and identity and kind of
real roughly or quickly some of the
things we found out is the cloud
services are pervasive and have done a
ton of work in in terms of in by no
stretch we should be throwing any of
that away whilst PGP and IP fest in
particular is is kind of I guess you
know moving forward taking that a bit
forward or moving that a bit to the side
of what people are used to I think we
have to kind of understand what people
are used to and kind of build on these
conventions there are a lot of questions
about these PDP or sorry about these
cloud services as well too so people
we've talked with we spoke with I
believe 21 or 22 people and they were
broken up into experts which are people
actively developing or working with ipfs
then early adopters people you know who
are just either involved in anything
from medical data in privacy to to kind
of blockchain related things to just
mobile usability designers and then the
third group which was potential users
which ranged from between Europe and
Africa for the particular cohorts that
we studied um but the question is a lot
of people had questions about these
cloud services on which we are so
dependent so some people weren't quite
sure about them but
you know they use them regardless
because they've become kind of
intertwined within the fabric of our
lives but there's the thing is is that
file management is a big thing of it you
know and this includes access to what
and and this again brings up this issue
of privacy so this kind of is always
underlying thread about privacy this is
why people are having questions about
cloud services and then the usability
seems from our sample to be as important
as security but you know again they're
always intertwined but it's about
finding this balance and kind of
shredding that thin line between the two
and one thing that cannot is well that's
quite interesting from the research is
that users don't want to necessarily
know what is making things work so it's
this idea about trust about especially
on the mobile device there seem to be
this you know a lot of context switching
a lot of this kind of pervasive partial
attention issues so that they don't want
to know what's making work just that it
does that's particularly important in
mobile it seems and PTP as a concept is
quite easily understood by everybody we
talk to again with a sample size this is
21 to 22 people but again that's going
from you know an expert activity well
they would obviously know what it is but
to early adopters they were all familiar
with the concepts behind this and as
well as people in emerging markets and
elsewhere that would be potentially
interested in this and then the other
thing that came out is about the kind of
mobile life you could say itself which
was about notifications how
notifications are kind of their function
door pervasiveness they're over
pervasiveness is quite an issue as well
and again about the phone itself and
what separates it from the desktop and
what separates it from these other
experiences are we kind of research
before in particularly with a browser
this is what you could call the
infrastructure of mobile life which is
this idea of battery in Israel and
signal and you know these two things and
nothing can work without it you know
these are the pipes that keep it all
going and and mainly security is hard um
it's really hard a lot a lot of times
people despite their best intentions
they
they just can't be bothered a lot of
times and even a lot of the early
adopters we spoke with they had similar
sort of opinions as well and kind of
what privacy and security means is very
nuanced again as well so in a context
opponent so again what you place what
value you place on your online life or
what kind of data you have online also
depends on kind of how you value privacy
and what you wouldn't you want to secure
and how much and again and in regards to
the theme of this this meetup is is the
role of offline you know things working
offline a lot of people we spoke with
obviously wished for that but then kind
of couldn't really perceive how they
would use it necessarily but we're very
into it so it's kind of looking at how
we can make that fit into these sorts of
things and kind of like nicely slide
ipfs into these sorts of mobile health
behaviors so again on looking at the
offline kind of making this I guess
dependable it is part of it and and then
looking at security and all these other
sort of things so moving on into the
actual design and kind of the part of it
was around the design strategy so the
the strategy itself was we started with
with these kind of key questions to
frame where to get started with a design
and these questions are outlined here
and you know and they're largely about
how can design begin to answer these
questions so we took these and looked at
kind of how we could arrange the the
design and that was looking at well into
prints dividing into principles and
building scenarios based on those
principles so what we wanted what we've
done is to kind of build the overall
rationale from build based on the
research and then from that then moving
on to examples and illustrations of that
that designers and developers and
builders of on ipfs for mobile kind of
using examples and kind of carry things
forward and it's all about you know
taking this research and translating it
to conceivable and useable things and
building these interaction and interface
design framework
which will be illustrated within the
scenarios and the principles and it's
all about this mobile design guidelines
being this living guide and it's in
making it a reality for everybody so
again to kind of being the living
documents and then kind of develop and
enhance this practice and this is
essentially designed for design on and
because we can't necessarily rely on
component libraries to describe it we've
had to again build these principles and
then with on on top of those principles
build out the scenarios and go from that
overall thinking with the principles to
the scenarios which are examples of how
to think through and design for
particular issues which we'll get into
in a minute the first thing we did is we
had a workshop with active idea fest
developers so internal and external to
protocol labs and we went through the
process of taking those research
findings and taking those key questions
that were outlined in design strategy
and prioritizing them but the and you
can kind of see here and you can read
about key takeaways there but what it
was is about what we wanted to do
through the workshop is link these
questions and to users so that because
we want to make this a user centered
exercise we looked at who is the user
and linking the problems to them and you
didn't see a bit of that here and
prioritizing that and then building out
their needs filling out some user
personas and ranking them and then
finally linking those users to problems
so again keeping the users a focus and
then bringing up those different
problems and questions and attaching to
them and then finally kind of building
out or you could say we're proto user
stories to help frame the design so it's
aza
there's a role there's the person that
would be using some sort of ipfs mobile
application and then what they're there
what they need and then finally after
that some sorry as so that sorry the
thing they want to accomplish and then
the reason for that so and kind of what
some things I can't even come up and we
can kind of just really briefly is this
understanding in privacy and secured
which again came up and kind of
attaching that and how to make that kind
of evident in people's interactions with
that applications and simplicity came up
a number of times making things simple
not making complicated which was
obviously a paramount for something like
this because if you're introducing a new
technology and potential new methods of
doing things that's absolutely important
especially on mobile where the attention
is obviously drastically reduced and
it's also more frequent to so people's
in and out is more frequent and shorter
so and then this idea about visibility
and discovery and contacts because a
mobile device is after all well it's
supposed to be at integrate a
communication device so it's this idea
about the files and the people attached
to them and the privacy in your
communications between these people any
questions so far anybody should okay so
yeah the first thing the first half of
the the face first major half of it is
of course these principles and we broke
it down into five there's also five
scenarios as well so the first is
respect the device the second is explain
don't overwhelm I'll go in then in a in
depth in a minute make privacy work for
the user give control over data and be
seamless and these are again sort of
providing this there's overall kind of
this overarching thinking this rationale
to the design and how to think about the
design and taking that research in
starting to translate it into real world
applications so the first is respect the
device come on there we go and each of
these principles outlines kind of taking
it's kind of particular bits from
different parts of the research and
outlining it and then developing
patterns around that so for instance
with respect to device it's all about
kind of learning about the nuances of
smartphones and working with the reality
of people's lives on them so again this
is mobile life is a lot different from
desktop
so learning about these kind of
differences of whether to be subtle or
drastic and understanding the specific
conditions and working with them for a
unique solution so for instance in in
the different patterns one is notify the
user something might not finish because
of the battery level so each of these
patterns has a do an adult so these are
kind of helpful guides or kind of things
to pay attention to for designers and
developers that could should be able to
make their their lives a bit easier when
they're developing and design
applications on ipfs for mobile so for
instance and all of them many of them
have illustrations so for instance
battery like that came up before about
this idea about the infrastructure over
the phone or a mobile life itself you
know this thing about battery you know
if you're trying to trying to get a lot
of data this drains batteries really
quick we had discussion with community
members about its kind of the site
throttling and how to do that and
there's different techniques and it's
quite an ongoing piece of work as things
but some of those this can be addressed
in design as well too so alerting users
they shouldn't get into something they
might not be able to finish for instance
and again that's likewise a you know
showing that file sharing things might
not take a long time or it might not
work a lot if there's signal and
indicating that you're offline or
indicating that you're online and kind
of this you know kind of fine line
between display because again the
display is very limited and in thinking
about time and costs you know so in
particularly in emerging markets data
costs are quite a big issue and some
they're not but the idea is likely cost
and the next one is next principle is
explained don't overwhelm and a lot of
that is about just being supportive
again that when you're trying to
introduce a new way of work or a
slightly new way of working or new
technology people might not be used to
and it's kind of about being supporting
and a lot of that is before you move on
to the next one so yeah what well I just
want to make a note on the respective
device yeah I feel like this was this
was one of the most challenging bits
when we were doing the synthesis because
we had this sometimes conflicting
reports where you have like maybe a user
in the research who says no battery is
better he's not important to me but it's
because they carry around to about a
battery tax for some cards and three
phones right and to part of this in the
research is it's really difficult to
tease those bits out right so this
combination of like the words from the
people you interviewed malice but then
also understanding those words in
context and marrying those two to be
able to understand what these what these
learnings were to be able to provide
guidance for the next 10,000 p2p based
application builders right
so I thought that respect advice when it
was was probably one of the most
challenging in terms of understanding
what the guidance that you can give to
people are yeah yeah definitely a good
point it was trying yeah because it's
with with phones especially it's
interesting but from talking to so like
such a broad range of users that people
just sort of put up with a lot and they
shouldn't have to so design should
address like all of that stuff that
people are just kind of putting up with
you know two different phones for
different sins three different battery
packs it shouldn't be like that I guess
but people put up with a lot more so
yeah there was definitely yeah this
exactly like Dietrich said is really
hard to kind of tease out I mean this
one was also sort of hard to tease out
which is this idea about not
overwhelming the user with information
and it's a lot of it is about kind of
just being supportive or just enough
supportive so about what is happening
and when
being kind of gentle about things and
not overwhelming the user but with the
notifications or confirmations
necessarily and in a lot of it is about
onboarding really so we looked at a lot
of different onboarding processes with
p2p and blockchain apps and it's about
focusing on the benefits and not the
technologies largely what it's about and
it's how to kind of make that short and
concise and how to kind of kind of put
this all throughout the apps really you
know these nice supportive messages
things highlighting the benefits of
these types I think this really ties in
to what you brought up earlier around
how users didn't know what offline meant
they're like ready yeah super into the
idea about flying what does that mean to
me more communicating what the
capabilities are is something that a lot
of these apps that were looked at do
kind of implicitly but not explicitly
yeah
I think this one's really really
important design lesson around users
don't understand what the value is if
you don't explain it to him to that
right a lot of times understanding what
Offaly Laffite means it's really hard
it's harder it's harder indie web than
it is in there's so many like
intermediate we're in normal web world
entirely and one of the interesting
concepts I think is well that kind of
kind of wraps us all together is this
idea by don't highlight what you're
doing too much you know about you know
about this you know the IP FS at the end
in the above screen or that it's it's
about kind of putting this information
hiding the benefits upfront sorry
displaying the benefits upfront getting
the getting the user in nicely and
quickly and confidently and then finally
kind of trickling in this sort of this
thing is oh it's built on this thing
this thing that gif does does all the
stuff that makes this app so great to
use so it's about some of the deal a lot
of Z Web Apps and blockchain things in
particular are very much about throw the
technology words at you self sovereign
etc etc etc and just overwhelming people
and that creates even
bigger barriers to entry and that's what
one of the principles is to avoid I
think in again privacy comes up in weird
spots and in different ways than
people's understanding of it varies
drastically but a lot of it is related
to kind of their values and it's but
fundamentally is about privacy being
well a right you know but it should be
easy you know that's the thing it has to
be easy and it has to be just enough and
looking at some patterns again it's it's
about I think one of the most effective
ones is a starter mode you know that you
don't be easy you have the events you
know and then kind of building on that
getting people in nicely and then they
can you know as they advance if they
continue with the application then they
can kind of start poking around and
adjusting stuff and doing all that later
but to kind of give you know that that
onboarding because this is part of
onboarding is the settings is getting
that you know is quickly done as
possible and to make it is less
confusing as possible and and this is
part of it as well too so about accounts
so people all the pain all people
interviewed had loads of accounts and I
think the least amount of accounts
somebody interviewed we talked to it had
I think was five so if you imagine you
have a minimum of five different emails
and five different accounts that
different services are tied to you don't
want to truck another thing on to that
without giving some sort of added value
so trying to communicate that upfront
and then allowing them to get into stuff
without necessarily signing up for an
account is terribly important and sorry
just check in the chat yeah in and being
clear about what the security methods
that were involved is is also terribly
important as well too so this we looked
at from various kind of blockchain apps
and kind of peer-to-peer apps in
particular ones that used some sort of
kind of chatting or community sort of
stuff because a lot of them relied on
having kind of keys and recovered keys
and these are I mean 48 words is a lot
to save or write down somewhere and kind
of waves around
and kind of making this is easy and if
you're going to require somebody to
write something down in a piece of paper
or to save it in a text file or
something you have to communicate like
what exactly is happening because you
can't assume that they're familiar with
this and an interesting one that can I
came up and the one that we kind of
included because it's all quite small
although this could be quite massive is
about account fallbacks people that we
spoke with were like that you know that
there was with their Gmail that it can
go to another email and then the phone
number has another phone number attached
to it that there's that there's no
there's a fallback there's a fail-safe
there's a way to get back into it it's
not just gonna be all lost if I lose
these words however this obviously has a
lot of contrast with a lot of kind of D
web practices which kind of potentially
give users especially new users perhaps
potentially too much responsibility and
kind of trying to deal with these the
next one is give control over data so
again these are kind of active
suggestions so so to give control over
data is about who can do what to what
you know the the file the thing I have
the chat that I have who can access it
what can they do to it what can I do to
it you know what what is this control
you know what do I have the ability to
do the first thing with that you should
probably do would be to assure the files
are safe you know if if you have a file
sharing application or something where
you can kind of move things around then
assure the user that it just won't
disappear whether you know that or
assure that who can see it in somebody
somebody else can't delete it
necessarily and again that's clearly
related to be clear about who has access
to what you know I'm kind of oh that
thing is locked or that thing is not you
know these kind of quick scans that you
can kind of look through you can kind of
quickly understand because again mobile
is a mobile interaction is a very quick
interaction and it's all about kind of
scanning and kind of flipping through
very quite quickly and finally is
classic files and folders there's spoken
to a lot of people about different
methods of file management
and how they're managing access and
stuff it seems although there's I'm sure
tons of research saying that there's way
better ways of doing stuff this is what
people are used to and we don't want to
innovate too much for people especially
when you're on a phone so kind of
keeping to these kind of classic
paradigms that people are used to and
again sliding it kind of nicely in and
if you're going to introduce new methods
for managing and stuff then to kind of
do that quite gradually or quite easily
and to give fall backs to these things
though and finally it yes a couple a
couple of notes on that one yeah I feel
like it when we when we're looking at
this particular principle there are a
few things really at ipfs and how it
relates to the host operating system
that it's running on that kind of came
up repeatedly you know we have on the
desktop we have an IP fess repo and it's
separate from your desktop filesystem
you don't see the stuff and you're a
professor repo and finder or vice versa
and on mobile that so I just thought
that's it's kind of like there's a lot
of applications that work that way so
it's not as big of a deal
but on mobile you you have fewer places
to look and you know a little bit more
where your stuff is and so photos was
one of the examples that we walked down
in detail and in photos there's either
the photos that are in your Photos app
that's part of the OS and then there's
the things that you have published it
uploaded somewhere so there's like it
here that being really clear like it's
really clear that you first have a copy
the indie web principles have this too
or you like publish on site passi like
publish on own site first indicate
elsewhere and mobile kind of works that
way by default where you take a photo
and unless you're using the Instagram
the actual app to take the photo in
which case like that that publishing
aspect is really clear the is generally
unambiguous around where your data is
you know that it's in your in your
photos have in this most common use case
but with t web it's not as clear and the
sharing part becomes interesting
interestingly similar to how those
systems work so when you share something
on my BBFS
you know we often couch that and once
you put that data out there somebody
else can keep posting it and
you phrase it that way that actually
kind of just sounds like what instagrams
doing with your photo today you put it
out there and they're hosting it now you
could delete your account - that would
go away but it still doesn't mean that
his script doesn't have a copy of it or
then somebody didn't take and screech
other or so it was I feel like we we
came with to some guiding principles I'm
like high level things for guidance here
but we also ended up with a lot of
questions around how do you communicate
about IP fast how to communicate about
where your stuff is and that some of
that is still is isn't even really fully
answered in that in the core protocol
and and there's still some ones some
work to do in the core not just a random
giving design guidance yeah and further
to that there seems to be an assumption
as well that if I took a picture or if I
recorded a thing and I did it with my
phone there is sort of the assumption
that oh of course it's on the phone
still because this is the magic
recording device right so there's is
working with that as well - and again
that's kind of sort of contrary like
Dietrich said to kind of D web and kind
of decentralization user patterns which
is kind of it's on the network somewhere
and you're just only kind of poking at
it knowing again so it's this about kind
of the local the local thing versus the
maybe it's the offline or the internet
or the network store that kind of
dealing with that so and and a lot of
that is sort of to do with the next one
which is it's it's about being seamless
and it's about kind of going between
these nicely and telling the user what's
going on so they they understand what's
happening and a lot of that is with
around managing connections so some apps
require you to switch modes let's say or
that you have to adjust things and they
shouldn't have to do that and in not
requiring much from the user you know
and a lot of that is around settings you
know settings are confusing especially
you know when you create quick ways to
get people on then it's a it's about
removing those things and making it
really easy and part of that is about
doing the hard work to take out as much
as you can to make you know have as few
settings as possible so in kind of
creating that kind of starter to pro
level I guess you could say and to do it
kind of hide things away too because
part of the seamless experience is that
is built is confidence building so that
you're educating and use confidence
building that it'll just sort of work
you know that when I'm using this thing
built on this ipfs stuff it'll just sort
of work and I don't have to worry about
it because I don't want to take off my
phone and kind of mess with yet another
app so this is kind of the realities of
mobile life which are again quite
different from the kind of context of
desktop life yeah one of the things we
noticed we were talking about this kind
of stuff is this confidence building
right so the design of lid p2p is
basically so that you don't have to
worry about the type of connection you
have it's supposed to make a lot of that
transparent it just finds a way life
finds a way over p2p whether it's
through mdns where the through his
direct ESP connections which are whether
it's bootstrapping and then relaying
over other networks limb p2p is designed
from the ground up with a principle of
just find the connection so you don't
have to worry about it
but right now the reality of it is is we
do confidence building by doing things
like showing you how many peers you have
and for a lot of users that's that's
both there's a combination of too much
in the wrong information like like we
don't we don't in in our core apps we
don't do things like say you have 38 you
have 78 peers but none of them can be
reached or you have 78 peers but the
actual like you know we measure the
round trip of an example request then
it's super super slow so the confidence
level should actually be really low even
though you might have a lot of peers for
example if you're slowly collected them
over an edge connection or something and
we don't think have things like
dynamically managed high and low water
marks and so there's there's it we're in
this weird situation where we don't have
a lot of good examples of how to build
that confidence on top of a p2p system
the in theory have you come back with
this like the the growing number of
validations of a transaction which again
it I think is a very similar example
where you showed that you showed the
guts of how the machine works as a way
to build confidence and it kind of has
the opposite of effect so I think
they're still really a like this is more
like a prompt in the beginning of an
opening of that what that'd be seamless
question looks like for p2p we're
providing to providing too much
information and sometimes the wrong
information and has the opposite effect
of confidence
building says it's a really hard problem
yeah I mean part of the con yeah it is
it's it's insane yes it's massive
actually because I mean part of part of
the confidence is is that you want to do
it again right and if if there's too
much to do then you're not gonna have
confidence that this is worth doing so
it's it's kind of there's you know now
them of issues and problems and it is
quite context specific and again that
context is also drastic from you know
place to place from society to society
geography to geography from the
principles we built scenarios and again
the the principles are let's say a
rationale like a kind of a framing of
thinking you know how to think about
these different things about you know
again respecting the device and when I'm
doing some when I'm just starting to
build when I'm starting to design I
should be this should be seamless to the
user they should have the ability to do
that and that and that and then from
that we built these scenarios and
scenarios are user close or sort of
design patterns but we chose to do this
through an app X in an app Y to kind of
illustrate its use so kind of taking a
problem or an issue or basically
scenario that would be the solution to
an issue and then kind of describing it
through oh X and absol I would
professional apps so to provide the
description through an interface
essentially so those are again in detail
and just hook in whenever you want or if
something's not clear if I'm talking too
fast for instance the first one is these
are on boards confidently with minimal
technical knowledge that's a lot of what
we're talking about and that's why this
one's first basically and then the user
shares the file through another app
again you know people don't want it it
shouldn't be like no you have to install
this thing you have to spend a ton of
time on this thing you gotta kind of
build up all that stuff which is
contrary to sort of kind of how the app
world has worked which is kind of about
that you're fostering that you're
farming that you're kind of loading up
and kind of giving these companies all
of your data to just kind of build up
all of this stuff into these silos and
this is about kind of using the phone as
it already is and because it's about
kind of reducing those barriers to entry
because people don't need any more apps
a large file is sent to a user that
sounds extremely simple than it is but
it's it's one of the biggest issues it's
like moving around big stuff right and
that's kind of one of the advantages
that PDP has is that dealing with large
files especially locally and offline the
user plays they shared media file with
why without Wi-Fi or a mobile network so
this is very much about the theme of
this talk this meeting and one of the
advantages that that something built in
ipfs has that Dropbox doesn't you know
or that these things that are so
pervasive that are just normal that are
part of the everyday of people's online
lives and then finally a user manages
their chat identity because ultimately
identity is more pervasive with when
you're talking about communication
between two people rather than kind of
moving files between two people so we
looked at an illustration of kind of
look of that as well
so the first days the first scenario is
that the user on boards confidently with
minimal technical knowledge and just
looking at that real quick right so kind
of what we found in the research is yeah
well the unborn is fast and passable
well secretly while you
this kind of secretly informative
process and that makes people feel good
about starting a new thing and that's
again talk it's about onboarding
onboarding onboarding and so one of the
things that kind of kept them coming up
in this confidence building like we're
talking about and for each of these
scenarios as well we have kind of links
to the research we have the design
considerations and those design
considerations are things that designers
and builders should have in mind for
particular its of interactions and those
are also within the each step of each
particular interaction and again we want
to tie this to a user this is we want to
do user centered design we want to think
about actual people using actual apps in
actual life and so in this particular
thing we was somebody concerned about
censorship and privacy and cool and they
want to know where this files go and
putting that into practice is the actual
user flow the illustration of what that
looks like for that particular user that
they would they would download and
install the app and it's open for the
first time so again they're interested
in testing but their commitment level
might be sort of low at this point so
how can we get them in and it's again
establishing that way to like you can
get started without committing too much
and especially if you're currently
concerned about privacy and the user
chooses the basic privacy settings so
again making that as easy as possible
but safe and communicating safe enough
but giving them the advanced thing as
well so they can go into that and then
perhaps most importantly is telling them
what that means so telling them what
they signed up for so if they chose
basic and your privacy settings mean
this you decided blah blah blah blah
blah XY and then and then if you're not
if you're not comfortable that you
should probably go back or you know if
you want to sign up for an account you
can do so here but bear in mind you can
continue without so you know doing so
and this particular user as many users I
would say the overwhelming majority of
users of apps they decide to create the
account later and that's quite important
to give the idea that they can use it
that they have functionality that it's
not just kind of barely workable without
without having an account and kind of
that value add for that account
especially for people concerned about
privacy because there's you know again
people have tons of accounts
have tons of worries they have tons of
things in the back of their mind that
they they they want to be able to use
something without committing however
once they've started using the all of
that value once they've started being it
but kind of the benefits from this then
they can kind of get additional values
and those need to be kind of
communicated upfront and then the second
synonym is the user shares a file
through another app and again the COO
the user is less a student their early
20s again these are kind of generic user
personas and they want to sell they want
to send files because that's what a lot
of people do that's people's
understandings when you talk to them
just like when we ask users and
potential users and early adopters and
everything's like what is your
understanding of p2p and they say oh
that means I can get a file or a data
from one computer to another directly
which is exactly what it is pretty much
so in putting that into practice is
about using again the stuff people are
already doing you don't want to create
an essentially another gallery app if
people are already using another so if
they open up the photo gallery let's say
and if this was available through the
share menu in well at least iOS and
Android which are the ones we looked at
granted there's others but these are
obviously the most prevalent then you
know this should app X is available
through the share menu just as telegram
is available in the share menu or
Dropbox is available in the show many
thus app X which is built on ipfs would
also be available there and again the
design consideration is about using
stuff people are already doing don't
make their lives more painful competi
the number one concern when you're
trying to base things around the users
is don't make it worse right and they
decide to select and share that and then
let's say if this if app X had context
then you know they can choose the most
frequent context and they're gonna share
that picture of that really cute cat and
they're and then they're gonna show how
it's being shared so it's being add to
network and send link so that's a bit of
a switch for some user so you need to
inform them it's you're not sending
necessarily your son
actually a link to something that has
been placed on the network so there's
again education throughout all of the
interactions and saying that it's like
oh it's on the network I have confidence
it'll be there later and perhaps most
important is out of all this is the
confirmation and then kind of linking it
back and then showing there's that
really long bunch of letters and numbers
and all that other stuff but that means
ipfs and that means it's save someone so
it's again their confidence building as
throughout these little bits of in bits
of interactions that's it that's a
really interesting point and I'm not
sure that we have a lot of design work
that's been done there around like one
what it means when there's a an address
that is an IP address to how we visually
signify that and then three how we
reinforce what that actually means when
you see that type of address and however
visually signify it like it does mean a
bunch of things yeah and I think we
that's maybe some follow-on work here
which is from a visual design standpoint
how do we actually develop and mature
that communication especially as
browsers or we have a couple of browsers
that are implementing native ipfs
addresses in the browsers I guidelines
we asked that question out what does it
mean when you see that in the in the
address bar as opposed to HTTP colon
slash slash what do we need to
communicate well from a risks and
capabilities standpoint yeah exactly
still still a lot of fertile ground
there
yeah and I'm kind of this obviously it
harkens directly to the kind of you know
blockchain world where you say 0x that
means an address and that means magic
stuff goes value yeah things meat things
go to that address you know and you see
0x and that means it's a place somewhere
or it's a wallet or it's a you can hold
the value of some sort so kind of
looking at that that when you see that
that means it owes goes to a thing or a
place somewhere and again but if we show
these addresses if we have visual
indications and maybe it's I don't know
some sort of newer kind of our
choreography developed around this to
say Oh
on the network it is safe you know that
these little sort of things like the
padlock let's say that's something akin
to that let's say oh sorry sorry Jim
tell me more about why you're thinking
of it this safe because that it to me it
means like I know that is the content I
put there if it's still there but
there's no guarantee that it's still
there if everybody who happened to be
nice right yeah I guess because we're
gonna get into this kind of pinning and
publishing and so this is just looking
at sorry yeah this is definitely a good
point because at this point they think
we just have to be an app X user for a
while to understand the idea of safety
but that it's just gone somewhere I
guess is what I was trying to describe
to that and then in I think that's you
know the next one or the one after that
we described the idea of kind of taking
it or it being on the network or versus
on your phone in this idea where it is
and thus your confidence that it's there
yeah I I think I think that's a great
question because I think that's Terry as
something as a project we haven't really
articulated yet like safe means that
can't be taken down Dropbox has nothing
has it finished uploading to Dropbox
like they definitely have it someone
else has it it's okay if I deleted off
we think it's still there which is not
the thing that we're talking about yeah
and like I gave in the chat later as an
example beaker tells you how many other
people are sharing that app right now so
you have this kind of view of pop yeah
the popularity of it like from it might
disappear at any moment standpoint and
IP fuss doesn't
how's that Blitzer the protocol but we
don't do that at the content level at
all and that's something that when you
read about how people talk about IP
festa don't know how it works that's how
they talk about it they say well I'd be
fence yeah your stuff stays up as long
as it's popular but that that's not
fundamentally how the dynamic works
right now is not a false statement but
it's also not a true statement or any
kind of guarantee so there's still
really
undecided please have any way to know
like how many people have been to thing
or how many people are currently hosting
that thing on there probably even have a
waiting yeah yeah be like who's
providing which blocks who's providing
which CA DS like that technically those
things are things you can't find out at
the protocol level does not something
that has percolated really up in to how
we build applications or how we
communicate to users around that level
of like the come what is the confidence
threshold for for something like that
how many people are simultaneously
downloading this right now - all right
there's there's actually this brings up
and which could be another scenario
which is what number safe is my file
which is how many people are panicking
at let's say or you know that sort of
thing that could be an entirely
different thing oh it's six it's fine
and then thus if it goes to one am I
warned that the thing that I started is
only one that means I have to pin it
again or whatever so yes is accessible a
better word than safe I think yeah I
think we can't jump to the conclusion or
the end there especially because safe is
gonna be really user tasks dependent so
if the user is trying to take down
something and the thing being there is
not safe if the user is trying to make
sure something stays up like in a
censorship regime that it being up is
safe so I think like safe maybe is they
can word but like I like that idea of
health maybe or accessibility like
although that's overloaded with like how
long has it been there - just because
you have six nodes providing now doesn't
mean they're gonna be there when China
blocks that port that I profess is
running on or you know so there's it's
gonna be user task dependent for sure
and I think we do need a higher level of
their nests accessibility said yeah
that's you know they're you and they're
nice and kind of I think it's this one
but we'll find out in a second
this is one that kind of describes that
scenario a bit in looking at somebody
working with huge files and potentially
limited internet access and yeah this is
about yeah looking at the whole transfer
process and where is the file and who
has it and kind of we were just talking
about and here's a potential
illustration of how an apex would handle
that and this is again looking at very
mobile specific context with that and
it's about notifications and kind of
putting that in somebody's sending you a
file and so you see that they have an ID
or that there's somebody that's in your
contacts you've connected to them let's
say somehow and again showing that they
can delete they can stop stuff they can
kind of prevent things from getting in
this is about giving control about you
know who has access to this thing you
know if they can put weight they can put
Stiles into my into my phone how does
that work you know so these are things
you can try to have to communicate and
let's say if this image is downloaded
and it's a raw file so it's you know 96
Meg's or whatever and they can you know
look at it and it looks just like any
other photo app let's say and that isn't
just because it would be easy but it's
just that we need to follow these
conventions it should look like a
regular file based app let's say and one
thing that I think that we didn't have
time to explore would be the notion of
history so people brought up versioning
and kind of a Dropbox that is that kind
of there's really nice feature well if
you pay for it I guess to get the
business one I can get more versions or
something
so that would be something to look at as
well again it's essentially the more
complicated for this particular scenario
but if the user was to delete an app
they kind of they have to understand
where it is first right so if you give
the user in app X the ability to to sync
with the phone storage which is let's
say they can set that as default or
maybe they said it is not as default or
keeping app X meaning my PFS only then
they can kind of choose between those
and if it's synced between and if it's
synced with the phone storage and say
well I can delete it from App X but it's
still on my phone and this kind of goes
back to the thing you brought up before
about Instagram so that I delete it from
there but it's actually on their servers
but communicating these sort of things
that this actually works a lot different
and it's probably a potentially a lot
safer and better for you and it's about
giving those preferences and kind of
simplifying these as much as humanly
possible of course giving them the
ability to download it and you know
delete it that's part of the safety
issues as well too is trying to control
as much as you can within the realms of
how ipfs works and yeah in this case the
user deletes it and it's gone and that
seems like a normal operation to them of
course that's because they oh it's on my
phone still but it's disappeared from
the network so it's kind of working with
these and trying to explain how it works
while trying to make it look like
something they're already used to and
the next one the second last one in the
interest of time I'll maybe kind of
hurry up basically so the user plays a
shared media file without Wi-Fi and this
is exact completely offline in trying to
say what offline is this person in this
scenario is they're on a train so at
least in many the UK in particular train
reception when you're on the train is
pretty quick spotty if at all so it's
like I'm with some others somebody else
how do I get the file to them or like if
you're in a plane same sort of thing and
it's about when in notifying them that
they're offline Bluetooth is the thing
that's working for you right now the
other stuff is not Wi-Fi is gone no
signal
etc because your phone is telling you
that so this is gonna say it's offline
but it's still store it still will work
and it's communicating that and they
want to preview the file and there's you
know the wasn't Rick Astley and so again
that you see the kind of address you oh
that looks like that code that means
it's going somewhere and it's been
published meaning so this is looking at
this idea of kind of pinning and what
does I mean and what can we kind of we
work around the meanings of these things
and what will apps change their own
words for this potentially because who
knows but looking at kind of what what
makes sense to use this to get them
started quickly
and they used a QR code okay I got my
phone you got your phone and well the
file magically goes there and QR codes
are I mean sort of obscure but also
completely like gaining traction with a
lot of different things because they use
for confirmations a lot of times and
they're used in increasingly more and
more in some places like China and yeah
the Far East or whatever you want to
call eastern Asia is yeah basically use
quite quite a lot and so it's about you
know putting in the profile what's the
information here's the thing and it can
be all done without the internet or the
internet as people think about it and
about unpublishing well I want to take
this thing down so I wouldn't publish
that and I can control that right from
that file so it's about who has control
who can access what from where and it's
about this you know the safety or
whatever you want to call it and you
know there's probably a lot of work
trying to come up with the right words
for what that means and giving those
people that controls right there and
finally the last scenario is a user
manager search that identity and there
seems to be like when we looked at all
the apps in kind of in the peer-to-peer
realm that we found that were released
or active for mobile that they kind of
were quite quite distinctly divided
between files meaning largely torrents
and then kind of some sort of chat or
community sort of features ie many
versus scuttlebutt those sort of things
but kind of what we looked at is is this
messaging scenario which is about
getting started and discovering and one
of the hard things about this the
peer-to-peer world is a discoverability
in allowing yourself to be discoverable
and a lot of these don't make many of
the things we looked at kind of that you
have to send it directly in a different
way you can't put yourself make yourself
discoverable not that I found it at any
rate in the in the survey and putting
that into practice means that if I'm
getting started in an app I can I can
look at my profile to make sure I'm
discoverable so I can put myself I
understand that I've looked at my
profile to make sure
aware of what I'm about to do let's say
and I have some sort of recovery and
trying to communicate that and there's a
lot of text there on the recovery bit
but it's that balance and that would
take a lot of work trying to make that
as simple as possible as well to that
these magic twelve words you need them
and what can you do about that and again
that they search for somebody who have
made themselves discoverable and it's
about kind of creating these layers on
top of the network to kind of add well
basically stuff we're used to in our
regular life if I type I don't know
Deitrick into telegram you know he'll
show up I guess I don't remember or
somebody else that this idea of
discoverability leads to building the
network of users and it's something that
needs to be taken quite well quite
seriously and then but this also highly
illustrates this notion of this this
really fine line between security and
usability and kind of how do we mix and
match those or how do we go one way or
the other allow the user to go one way
or the other
and so to wrap up in there they found
the other user I'll be quick because
we're probably over time it's it's a lot
of this work is about playing to
conventions but improving on them so
again we don't want to reinvent the
wheel with this you know there's no need
for that because Dropbox and Google
Drive and all these things have done
tons of usability work and trying to
understand how people understand about
files being moved around and what chat
means and all these other sorts of
things and notifications are everywhere
but they require I believe a lot of
testing to to to get to that fine
balance of what is enough and what is
too much you know do you want to confirm
every single thing probably not and do
you want to set controls to come from
every single little thing probably not
so how do you get to that kind of like
that really nice mix and user education
that pops up everywhere it's about the
confidence building it's about the kind
of saying that the you know it's about
sliding up if that's nicely into mobile
life that it's yes it works here's the
benefits I use this thing it's you know
about showing the links about maybe a
subtle logo and about kind of about that
what is the equivalent to the padlock
you know what is what is the the analog
to that and telling the user what's
going on you know and doing it quickly
and not confusing them and not
overburdening them one thing and again
explaining what's happening with pinning
or publishing or whatever you want to
call it and and yeah like I said before
but I probably can't say enough is is
this fine line between security and
usability because usability on a phone
is kind of a do-or-die operation it's
you it's not usable people will delete
it quicker than they will anything else
so how do you make that happen and
through hopefully these principles and
scenarios designers developers for IP
paths will be able to make that happen
or in this will you know their work will
feed back into this and likewise it'll
grow and all of these efforts really so
sorry that was long-winded um but if
there's any questions yeah sure
hey thanks a lot Jim there's really a
lot of there's a ton so if we're almost
all the time if folks have more
questions feel free to ask I think I
liked the in the previous blog post
Jim's on Twitter telegram and then this
these findings will be shared in a blog
post coming up on this blog that's well
yeah it's that kind of summarizes
everything and yeah that's that's so
that's it really so yeah let me know or
Dietrich or whoever and yeah I just make
some maps or something I don't know okay
all right thanks everyone thanks for
your patience in yeah if there was a lot
to get through so there's great thanks
for sharing thank you didn't work all
right thanks everybody for joining see
you in a month I'll put the topic and
agenda I think we already have a speaker
lined up for next time who I think Evan
here might be one of the speakers so we
will talk to you all and a month I'll
update the issue with that information
ASAP okay great thanks thank you